# Campaign_Analysis

This is a trend, preformance and demographics analysis on campaign data base.

# high-level overview statement about campaigns’ status, including the most important aggregated metrics such as sales, costs, performance (CPA, CPC) 
Conversion rate median is 0.073, meaning half of the campaigns will count a conversion once in 10,000 clicks, and so far regarding the 3 months analysis reached only 0.825 conversions.
Furthermore, CTR median value is less the 0.1%, meaning for every 1,000 impressions there will be (on average) 1 click. This findings support the campaigns are lacking in performance and needed a tuning. 

Additionally, using search impr. share and search lost, further information regarding 91 campaigns with the following results is - 

Search Impr. share avg - 44.65140003052503
Search Lost IS (rank) avg - 52.314513888888904
Search Lost IS (budget) avg - 3.2442539682539686

Meaning, on average, 53% of the times the ads aren’t showing in searches due to low ad rank/ quality score, moreover, ads are showing only in 44% of the impression volume they could reach, supporting the argument that Company’s campaigns need adjustment and optimization.


# Most profitable campaigns and correleation with  audiences’ demographics?
Campaign	Campaign ID
GM - REM1 - NA #QA V2	11268506295
Smart Global - TOP COUNTRY 1 #QA WL V1 	11661592991
Discovery - REM - Global #QA V1 RG1	11508644810
Global - Branded #QA	10419629499
Discovery - REM - Global #QA V1 RG2 	11604736493


An interesting insight – most of the conversions for 4 out of 5 campaigns have a low conversion rate and high view-through conversion rate, meaning company’s clients from these campaigns tend to purchase the product in a given window of 30 Days 
(set by Google ads) from seeing the ad.

Demographically speaking, both age and gender files lack of view-through conv. metric and therefore have limited information about these top campaigns, furthermore there is only information about 3 out of 5 campaigns as follows:

•	Discovery - REM - Global #QA V1 RG1
•	GM - REM1 - NA #QA V2
•	Global - Branded #QA

•	Age demographic –
o	In all 3 campaigns, approximately similar amount of money was invested in the age range of 25-34 and 45-44 and slightly higher for 35-44
o	With this knowledge, higher impression volume was made within the ages of 25-34 and 35-44
o	Highest conversion volume is with 35-44 age range and following that, 2nd with highest volume is 45-44 age range
o	Meaning the campaigns has targeted ages 35-44 correctly while within 25–34-year-old customers campaigns lacked attracting to purchase the product (optional reasons for low conversion volume can be – cost of purchase, lack of medical need, ad-copy not suitable for this range of age) 

•	Gender demographic
o	Unknown customers have significantly less interaction to the top 3 campaigns impression wise to interaction and conversion.
o	Both in REM campaigns there’s a significant difference between male and female – highest impression, interaction and conversion are generated by male customers, up to twice as large from female customers – meaning these campaigns target male customers better. 
o	GLOBAL campaign succeeds to attract both genders as well has the highest interaction and conversion rate regarding unknown customers.
